This code starts from the M8416C schematic in the parent directory.

First, the files M8416Cprts.txt and M8416Cpins.txt are exported 
from Eagle, using the Export->Partlist and Export->Pinlist commands.
They then contain the BOM and the netlist (in part-pin order), which 
are used to generate the CUPL equivalent of the logic of the M8416C.

The M8416C uses a fair number of DEC23xxxxx programmed parts in the 
design.  Each of these has a directory, ../23xxxxx, containing CUPL 
code for a (hopefully equivalent) programmed device.  Each of these 
is assembled using CUPL (in device independent mode), creating an 
output ../23xxxxx/23xxxxx.doc file.

To extract the optimized logic and convert it into a Perl code 
generation module, the routine "mklbr.pl" takes these .doc files 
as input, and outputs a suitable (though ugly) code generator on 
standard output.  The command to do this is:
  ./mklbr.pl ../23*/23*.doc >lbr.pl

The file "lbr.pl" will then contain project-specific code generators 
for the DEC23xxxxx parts.

The file "topld.pl" contains code generators for 74xxx logic parts
and various other industry standard logic parts commonly used in 
DEC designs.  It also has the code to parse the parts and pin lists, 
invoking the code generators appropriately to generate CUPL code 
equivalent to the input schematic.  (Various warnings are emitted 
for parts, such as the sn74221, which aren't logic, and therefore 
aren't translated.  The invocation to do this is:
  ./topld M8416C
which reaquires the matching prts.txt and pins.txt files to do it's 
thing.

The result is "M8416C.PLD", which is then compiled with the CUPL 
compiler.  The compiler will actually fail to generate code, as 
there are a couple of places in the design where cross-coupled 
gates are used to build flip-flops, which generates a "signal 
depends on itself" error.

So, going back to the schematic, M8416P (TODO) is a version of 
the M8416 with these logic loops replaced with proper flip-flops, 
then the logic extraction is done again, leading to M416P.PLD.

Many of these processes are error prone.  It is likely that minor 
errors exist in the transcription of the schematic.  At some point, 
the board layout needs to get traced, and when that is done, it 
provides a valuable check on the veracity of the schematic.

The logic in the ../23xxxxx directories may not correctly reflect
the actual programming found in the original DEC parts.  The translation 
of these into code generators will propogate those errors, and has
the potential to introduce new ones.

There are dozens of code generators involved in the translation of 
industry standard parts, almost all of which are hand-written and 
potential sources of error.

The general strategy for dealing with errors is to automate as much 
of the translation as possible.  Then, if there's an error in the 
schematic, just fix that and rebuild.  If there's a problem with a 
code generator, fix it and rebuild, etc.

Hope this helps!

    Vince
